
when operating in protected mode, a TSS and TSS descriptor must be created for at least one task, and the
segment selector for the TSS must be loaded into the task register

static fild not changed
The processor reads the static fields, but does not normally change them. These fields are set up when a task is
created. The following are static fields:
• LDT segment selector field — Contains the segment selector for the task's LDT.
7-4 Vol. 3ATASK MANAGEMENT
• CR3 control register field — Contains the base physical address of the page directory to be used by the task.
Control register CR3 is also known as the page-directory base register (PDBR).
• Privilege level-0, -1, and -2 stack pointer fields — These stack pointers consist of a logical address made
up of the segment selector for the stack segment (SS0, SS1, and SS2) and an offset into the stack (ESP0,
ESP1, and ESP2). Note that the values in these fields are static for a particular task; whereas, the SS and ESP
values will change if stack switching occurs within the task.
• T (debug trap) flag (byte 100, bit 0) — When set, the T flag causes the processor to raise a debug exception
when a task switch to this task occurs (see Section 17.3.1.5, “Task-Switch Exception Condition”).
• I/O map base address field — Contains a 16-bit offset from the base of the TSS to the I/O permission bit
map and interrupt redirection bitmap. When present, these maps are stored in the TSS at higher addresses.
The I/O map base address points to the beginning of the I/O permission bit map and the end of the interrupt redirection bit map. See Chapter 16, “Input/Output,” in the Intel ® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software




If paging is used:
• Avoid placing a page boundary in the part of the TSS that the processor reads during a task switch (the first 104
bytes). The processor may not correctly perform address translations if a boundary occurs in this area. During
a task switch, the processor reads and writes into the first 104 bytes of each TSS (using contiguous physical
addresses beginning with the physical address of the first byte of the TSS). So, after TSS access begins, if part
of the 104 bytes is not physically contiguous, the processor will access incorrect information without generating
a page-fault exception.
• Pages corresponding to the previous task’s TSS, the current task’s TSS, and the descriptor table entries for
each all should be marked as read/write.
• Task switches are carried out faster if the pages containing these structures are present in memory before the
task switch is initiated


tss descriptor

7.2.2
The TSS, like all other segments, is defined by a segment descriptor. Figure 7-3 shows the format of a TSS
descriptor. TSS descriptors may only be placed in the GDT;

The LTR instruction loads a segment selector (source operand) into the task register that points to a TSS descriptor
in the GDT. It then loads the invisible portion of the task register with information from the TSS descriptor. LTR is a
privileged instruction that may be executed only when the CPL is 0. It’s used during system initialization to put an
initial value in the task register. Afterwards, the contents of the task register are changed implicitly when a task
switch occurs.

task switch
1. jmp/call a tss descriptor in GDT
2. task-gate in GDT/LDT
3. interrupt in IDT
4. iret with NT flags in  EFLAGS



swtich_from 0->3


